Acetonitrile is widely used in pharmaceutical and industrial processes, but it is a volatile, flammable, and toxic gas.
The rapid detection of trace acetonitrile gas is crucial for industrial
production, environmental monitoring, and public safety. This
study presents a novel high-performance acetonitrile terahertz
(THz) gas sensing system based on a flexible, low-loss Ag/PP THz
hollow waveguide (HWG). The mathematical model of the
established sensing system calculates that the designed sensor
exhibits a high effective path length rate (0.9942), which can
achieve high gas sensing performance. Based on the molecular
rotational transition theory, the frequency positions of typical
absorption peaks of acetonitrile were calculated, which were
consistent with THz-TDS measurements. According to the strong
selective absorption of acetonitrile at 275.6 GHz and the Lambert−Beer law, the concentration of acetonitrile was measured by the
HWG-based THz gas sensor, where HWG serves as both the gas chamber and the transmission channel of THz waves. The effects of
the length and bending angle of HWG on sensitivity, response/recovery time, and LOD were investigated systematically. Both the
30 cm-long straight HWG and 75 cm-long curved (90°) HWG sensor could detect 10 ppb acetonitrile gas samples in 10 kinds of
mixed gases, with response/recovery times of 2.6/2.7 and 3.0/3.1 s, respectively. Meanwhile, the developed sensor demonstrated
excellent reversibility and reasonable reliability (RSD < 0.5%) in six test cycles. The as-built acetonitrile sensor exhibits high
selectivity, rapid response/recovery times, low LOD, and easy operability, opening up new avenues for the development of highperformance THz gas sensors.
KEYWORDS: acetonitrile, Ag/PP terahertz hollow waveguide, terahertz wave, molecular rotational spectroscopy, gas sensing
A
cetonitrile (CH3CN) has been widely applied in
numerous pharmaceutical and industrial processes
because of its excellent solvent properties and versatility.1
However, its flammability and toxicity pose serious risks to
human health and the environment.2 Therefore, accurately and
quickly detecting acetonitrile is very important. For instance,
the level of acetonitrile in the environment is a key indicator
for early warning of forest fires.3,4 As a toxic gas, acetonitrile
can damage the human central nervous system, blood, and
liver, potentially leading to cancer and respiratory diseases.2,5−8
Additionally, since acetonitrile can act as a simulant for cyanide
chemical warfare agents, detecting it at low concentrations is
crucial for battlefield operations and homeland security.9−16
According to the toxicology of warfare agents (WAs), the
immediately dangerous to life and health (IDLH) level of
acetonitrile is 50 ppm, meaning that exposure to this level for