various poisoning routes of naphtha all show a high degree of harm to the 
lungs, indicating the pulmonary toxicity of naphtha.
H₂S is a colorless, asphyxiating gas with a strong, pungent odor. It 
is slightly heavier than air and often accumulates at the bottom of 
enclosed spaces or areas. It inhibits the cellular respiratory chain (14) 
and exhibits both neurotoxicity and mucosal corrosive effects, leading 
to damage in the respiratory and central nervous systems (15). High 
concentrations of H₂S can directly inhibit the respiratory center of the 
brainstem, leading to “lightning-like unconsciousness” and respiratory 
arrest in patients. This further limits the victim’s ability to leave the toxic 
area and exposes the patient to prolonged poisoning, resulting in 
damage to multiple organ systems of the body. In severe cases, it can 
lead to death. Brain injury after H2S poisoning usually occurs secondary 
to severe cardiogenic shock, respiratory depression, and hypoxemia 
induced by acute pulmonary lesions (16). There is currently no specific 
antidote for H2S poisoning. Clinically, symptomatic support and 
treatment of complications are mainly adopted, and its prognosis is 
closely related to the exposure concentration, time, and the speed of 
emergency intervention. The “lightning-like unconsciousness” during 
H2S poisoning often leads to hasty judgments by rescuers, often 
resulting in large-scale poisoning incidents (17, 18).
The primary cause of this accident was the presence of high 
concentrations of H2S and other alkane gases in the oil tanker. The 
patients entered the oil tanker without protective equipment or 
awareness of occupational safety, leading to their poisoning. All three 
patients inhaled toxic gases through the respiratory tract, without 
ingestion through the digestive tract. The relevant toxic substances are 
metabolized rapidly in the body, and the exposure time at the poisoning 
site was relatively short. No relevant toxic substances were detected in 
the blood toxicology tests. In the early stage, all patients showed 
obvious damage to the respiratory system, accompanied by symptoms